# Naming

In SLIM, all endpoints are identified by a routable name. To send a message to a
specific client, an application sends the message to its unique name.

## Client Names

Client names follow this pattern:

```text
org/namespace/service/client
```

- **Organization**: The first component identifies the organization that deploys
  the application.
- **Namespace**: This can be used to segment client deployments. For example,
  in a multi-region deployment, the namespace might indicate the application's
  location. It can be adapted to fit other user requirements as well.
- **Service**: This component specifies the service exposed by the client. When
  multiple instances of the same client are deployed (such as several pods in a
  Kubernetes cluster), the organization, namespace, and service components
  remain the same for all instances.
- **Client**: The final component is generated by SLIM and is a hash of the
  client's identity (e.g., a hash of its public key). This uniquely identifies
  each client instance.

## Anycast and Unicast Delivery

The client naming structure supports both anycast and unicast message delivery:

- **Anycast**: By specifying only the first three components
  (`org/namespace/service`), a message can be sent to any one of the running
  clients sharing that name. The SLIM network delivers the message to whichever
  instance is available.
- **Unicast**: By including the fourth component (`org/namespace/service/client`),
  the message is delivered directly to the specified client instance.

This approach enables efficient client discovery. A message will be delivered
by the SLIM network to a client that is able to process it, even if the real
name of the client is unknown. Anycast forwarding is primarily used in this
discovery phase before a session binds to a specific instance.

## Channel Names

In addition to client endpoints, SLIM allows messages to be sent to Channels. A
Channel acts as a message group, allowing multiple clients to connect and
receive all messages exchanged on that channel. The channel name follows the
same structure as client names, but the last component is left empty, as it is
shared among all connected clients.

```text
org/namespace/service/
```

Channels underpin [group sessions](./session.md#group-session), where
multiple participants communicate many-to-many on a named channel.

For further details, refer to the [SLIM
Specification](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-mpsb-agntcy-slim/).
